31783175|2020|Comparative biochemistry and physiology. Toxicology & pharmacology : CBP|Black jaw tilapia (S. melanotheron) collected from Awba Dam (a watershed recipient of effluents from anthropogenic sources) was analysed for biological responses and trace metal burden with the aim of evaluating sex differences in these responses as a measure of environmental and biota health status. Concentration of heavy metals in fish muscle were analysed and showed values above WHO permissible limits for food. Physiological and biochemical responses (AST, ALT, ALP, total protein, albumin, globulin, BUN, Na+, K+ and creatinine) showed apparent sex-related differences. Among antioxidant defence system, mt mRNA and proteins showed higher levels in male S. melanotheron. CAT and GPx activities were significantly higher in males than in female fish, while the corresponding mRNA showed an opposite trend with higher transcripts in females than males. Further, while GST activity was apparently higher in females, GR activity was significantly higher in males, compared to female fish. ZnCu-sod mRNA showed significantly higher transcript levels in males, than females. Overall, the trend in these biological responses showed direct relationship with heavy metal concentrations in fish muscle and sediment. These relationships were revealed using PCA that produced significant groupings between physiological, biochemical and oxidative stress variables and muscle/sediment trace element burden. Specifically, the PCA biplots showed that these biological variables were due to the presence of the heavy metals in the dam. Therefore, the sex differences in the measured cellular adaptations of S. melanotheron in relation to the toxic conditions at the dam may have significant consequences on osmotic balance and cellular processes that regulate biochemical/antioxidant responses towards metabolism, behaviour, growth, reproduction and survival of Awba dam resident fish species. Thus, these responses should be compared to a suitable reference site to discern the extent of effects of the Awba Dam biota for monitoring purposes.|Comparative biochemistry and physiology. Toxicology & pharmacology : CBP|Adeogun;Ibor;Omiwole;Chukwuka;Adewale;Kumuyi;Arukwe|AO;OR;R;AV;AH;O;A|Department of Zoology, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.;Department of Zoology, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria; Department of Zoology and Environmental Biology, University of Calabar, Calabar, Nigeria.;Department of Zoology, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.;Department of Zoology, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.;Department of Zoology, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.;Department of Zoology, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.;Department of Biology, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Høgskoleringen 5, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. Electronic address: augustine.arukwe@ntnu.no.|eng|United States|Journal Article
31563786|2019|Environmental pollution (Barking, Essex : 1987)|The ecological risk assessment (ERA) of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) is imperative due to their ubiquity and biological effects in aquatic organisms. We evaluated the seasonal levels and ERA of 16 priority PAHs in surface water, sediment and fish from four (4) anthropogenic-impacted zones of the Lagos lagoon, Nigeria. PAHs were analysed using GC-FID and standard guidelines were utilized for the ERA. Also, we developed a sediment to water-PAHs ratio and ranking of PAHs for the ERA. The dominant fish species were Sarotherodon melanotheron (Black-Jawed Tilapia), Gerres melanopterus (Gerres), Liza falcipinnis (Sicklefin Mullet) and Pseudotolithus elongatus (Bobo Croaker) at Ilaje, Iddo, Atlas cove and Apapa zones respectively. The range of sum PAHs was 195-1006 μg L-1, 302-1290 μg kg-1 and 8.80-26.1 μg kg-1 in surface water, sediment and fish species respectively. Naphthalene was dominant in the surface water and sediment samples while 3-ring to 4-ring PAHs were predominant in fish species across the zones and seasons. The sediment to water-PAHs ratio was greater than 1 for sum PAHs and significantly higher (p < 0.05) in the wet season for specific PAHs across the zones and seasons. On the basis of the sediment PAHs level, Apapa zone was highly polluted with frequent biological effects while the other zones were moderately polluted with occasional biological effects across the zones and seasons. Fish species from all zones were minimally contaminated in both seasons except S. melanotheron which was not contaminated. The specific PAHs identified as ecological risk factors in the lagoon and ranking based on 50-75% recurrence in the ERA were; naphthalene, acenaphthene > acenaphthylene, fluorene, pyrene and benzo[a]anthracene. We recommend that the specific PAHs identified should form the basis for the establishment of environmental quality standards for individual PAHs in coastal waters based on the UN sustainable development goal 14 (life below water).|Environmental pollution (Barking, Essex : 1987)|Sogbanmu;Osibona;Otitoloju|TO;AO;AA|Ecotoxicology and Conservation Unit, Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos, Nigeria. Electronic address: tsogbanmu@unilag.edu.ng.;Department of Marine Science, Faculty of Science, University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos, Nigeria.;Ecotoxicology and Conservation Unit, Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos, Nigeria.|eng|England|Journal Article
31473935|2019|Journal of applied genetics|Red tilapia is a phenotype with potential value to the tilapia industry due to its attractive skin coloration. However, the presence of black blotches scattered on the body makes these fish less valuable than blemish-free red fish. The correlation between the degree of blotching and other economic traits is important for selective breeding programs including high-performance red fish without black blotches. Therefore, this study aimed to assess the magnitude and direct and indirect effects of blotching in crossbred red tilapia on the growth rate and body measure traits using path analysis methodology. Six genetic groups were evaluated in terms of body measurements, body weight rate, and proportion of black blotching over 250 days of growth: Chitralada and Red-Stirling; crossbred F1-♀ Red-Stirling × ♂ Chitralada and ♀ Chitralada × ♂ Red-Stirling, and the introgressive crossbreeding-♀ CR × ♂ Chitralada and ♀ Chitralada × ♂ CR (C × CR). All variables showed high and positive linear correlations. Individuals with black blotches had lower coefficients of correlation with other variables (body weight and measurements); the direct and indirect effects are near zero. The path analysis indicated a lack of genetic correlation between the degree of black blotches and the economic traits of red tilapia. This facilitates the development of high growth performance red fish with blotched-free reddish skin.|Journal of applied genetics|de Assis Lago;Reis-Neto;Rezende;da Silva Ribeiro;de Freitas;Hilsdorf|A;RV;TT;MC;RTF;AWS|Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology Baiano, Campus Santa Inês, Santa Inês, Bahia, Brazil.;Department of Animal Sciences, Federal University of Lavras, Lavras, Minas Gerais, Brazil.;Unit of Biotechnology, University of Mogi das Cruzes, Mogi das Cruzes, São Paulo, Brazil.;São Paulo State University-UNESP, Registro, São Paulo, Brazil.;Aquaculture Center, São Paulo State University-UNESP, Jaboticabal, São Paulo, Brazil.;Agrarian Sciences Center, José do Rosário Vellano University-UNIFENAS, Alfenas, Minas Gerais, Brazil.;Department of Animal Sciences, Federal University of Lavras, Lavras, Minas Gerais, Brazil.;Department of Animal Sciences, Federal University of Lavras, Lavras, Minas Gerais, Brazil.;Department of Animal Sciences, Federal University of Lavras, Lavras, Minas Gerais, Brazil. wagner@umc.br.;Unit of Biotechnology, University of Mogi das Cruzes, Mogi das Cruzes, São Paulo, Brazil. wagner@umc.br.|eng|#11/23752-2|Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo|England|Journal Article
30729088|2019|3 Biotech|The present study is aimed to evaluate the effects of sub-acute toxicity testing of copper sulphate (CuSO4), on behavioural, histological and biochemical changes of the Oreochromis mossambicus (black tilapia) blood tissues. The effects were assessed according to the previous results on sub-acute toxicity test after exposing fish to several concentrations (0.0, 2.5, 5.0, and 10.0 mg/L). The observations of scanning electron microscope, and transmission electron microscope studies revealed severe histopathological changes on the surface and the cellular changes in blood tissues, respectively. The morphological alterations in blood involved irregular structure of red blood cell and blood clot formation. CuSO4 affected the biochemical alteration of the blood cholinesterase also known as serum cholinesterase (ChE). Blood ChE inhibited up to 80% of activity when exposed to 10.0 mg/L CuSO4. The findings from this study can further improve the quality standards of aquaculture industry and the fundamental basis in selecting suitable strains among freshwater fish species to be used as bioindicator.|3 Biotech|Basirun;Ahmad;Sabullah;Yasid;Daud;Khalid;Shukor|AA;SA;MK;NA;HM;A;MY|1Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, UPM 43400 Serdang, Selangor Malaysia.;1Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, UPM 43400 Serdang, Selangor Malaysia.;2Faculty of Science and Natural Resources, Universiti Malaysia Sabah, Jalan UMS, 88400 Kota Kinabalu, Sabah Malaysia.;1Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, UPM 43400 Serdang, Selangor Malaysia.;3Department of Veterinary Laboratory Diagnostic, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Universiti Putra Malaysia, UPM 43400 Serdang, Selangor Malaysia.;4Faculty of Health Sciences, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Jalan Raja Muda Abdul Aziz, 50300 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.;1Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, UPM 43400 Serdang, Selangor Malaysia.|eng|Germany|Journal Article
28980200|2017|Journal of applied genetics|Quantitative genetic analysis was performed on 10,919 data records collected over three generations from the selection programme for increased body weight at harvest in red tilapia (Oreochromis spp.). They were offspring of 224 sires and 226 dams (50 sires and 60 dams per generation, on average). Linear mixed models were used to analyse body traits (weight, length, width and depth), whereas threshold generalised models assuming probit distribution were employed to examine genetic inheritance of survival rate, sexual maturity and body colour. The estimates of heritability for traits studied (body weight, standard length, body width, body depth, body colour, early sexual maturation and survival) across statistical models were moderate to high (0.13-0.45). Genetic correlations among body traits and survival were high and positive (0.68-0.96). Body length and width exhibited negative genetic correlations with body colour (- 0.47 to - 0.25). Sexual maturity was genetically correlated positively with measurements of body traits (weight and length). Direct and correlated genetic responses to selection were measured as estimated breeding values in each generation and expressed in genetic standard deviation units (σG). The cumulative improvement achieved for harvest body weight was 1.72 σG after three generations or 12.5% per generation when the gain was expressed as a percentage of the base population. Selection for improved body weight also resulted in correlated increase in other body traits (length, width and depth) and survival rate (ranging from 0.25 to 0.81 genetic standard deviation units). Avoidance of black spot parent matings also improved the overall red colour of the selected population. It is concluded that the selective breeding programme for red tilapia has succeeded in achieving significant genetic improvement for a range of commercially important traits in this species, and the large genetic variation in body colour and survival also shows that there are prospects for future improvement of these traits in this population of red tilapia.|Journal of applied genetics|Hamzah;Thoa;Nguyen|A;NP;NH|National Prawn Fry Production and Research Centre, Kg. Pulau Sayak, 08500, Kota Kuala Muda, Kedah, Malaysia. azhhas@yahoo.com.;Research Institute for Aquaculture No.1, Tu Son, Bắc Ninh, Vietnam.;University of the Sunshine Coast, Maroochydore, QLD, 4558, Australia.|eng|England|Journal Article
28968011|2017|Biomedica : revista del Instituto Nacional de Salud|Global increase in food and water pollution is associated with health risk, which depends on the concentration, the dose, and the exposure time. This has raised concerns about the possible long-term effects of chronic exposure to low concentrations of heavy metals, such as lead, cadmium and mercury.;To explore the relationship among socioeconomic status, eating patterns, and exposure to heavy metals among a population of women in Cali, Colombia.;A total of 233 non-pregnant women of childbearing age living in the Aguablanca district of Cali, Colombia, were enrolled in the study. We gathered sociodemographic data, as well as information on housing conditions, exposure to heavy metals, frequency of food intake, and anthropometric measurements. Samples of lettuce, cabbage and fish (tilapia and butterfish) were collected to determine lead, cadmium, and mercury concentrations. Descriptive and multiple correspondence analyses were performed to establish eating patterns.;Fish was served in each of the three main meals of the day, with a bigger serving at lunch time. Cadmium was found in three samples of butterfish at levels below the acceptable. Of those who ate fish more than once a week, 11.1% bought the product at a cadmium-positive store. The multiple correspondence analysis showed a positive relationship between being black and consuming butterfish and tilapia more than once per week.;The findings showed that the studied population had access to heavy metal-contaminated food, which combined with the women's cultural eating patterns, socioeconomic status, and metabolic characteristics led to a greater vulnerability to the effects of heavy metals exposure.|Biomedica : revista del Instituto Nacional de Salud|Figueroa;Caicedo;Echeverry;Peña;Méndez|R;D;G;M;F|Grupo de Epidemiología y Salud Poblacional, Escuela de Salud Pública, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia. rafigueroa@grupogesp.org.|spa|Colombia|Journal Article
27917068|2016|ZooKeys|Iranocichla persasp. n. is described from the Shur, Hasanlangi and Minab River drainages flowing into the Persian Gulf at the Strait of Hormuz in southern Iran. It is distinguished from Iranocichla hormuzensis, from the Mehran River drainage, by nuptial males having a bright orange breast and lower part of the head (vs. black), a poorly developed or invisible (vs. distinctive) "Tilapia-mark" in the dorsal fin and very clear white spots making almost wavy bars or stripes on the caudal fin (vs. without or with very few white spots). Mitochondrial DNA sequence characters suggest that both Iranocichla species are closely related but form two distinct clades, diagnosable by several fixed mutations in ND2, D-loop and partially by COI sequences. Populations from Kol River drainage, which is situated in-between the Mehran and the Shur River drainages, are more similar to Iranocichla hormuzensis in terms of their male nuptial coloration but to Iranocichla persasp. n. in their mitochondrial sequence characters. Their status requires further investigation.|ZooKeys|Esmaeili;Sayyadzadeh;Seehausen|HR;G;O|Ichthyology and Molecular Systematics Lab., Department of Biology, College of Sciences, Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran.;Ichthyology and Molecular Systematics Lab., Department of Biology, College of Sciences, Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran.;Department of Fish Ecology & Evolution, EAWAG Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Biogeochemistry, 6047 Kastanienbaum, & Division of Aquatic Ecology, Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Bern, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.|eng|Bulgaria|Journal Article
27898954|2016|Journal of animal science|Tilapia is one of the most important species in aquaculture; however, there is no available index to show the performance of a production unit. It is desirable to assess the productivity using indexes, such as the production and management index for shrimps and the European production efficacy factor for broilers. These indexes are based on data production: growth, survival, and feed conversion of a full production cycle. Taking into account these parameters, we propose a production and management index (PMI) for tilapia that is applicable for a specific period of the production cycle. For the construction and validation of the PMI we have used production data from 8,614 monthly records of 2 tilapia farms in Huila Department (Colombia), and because of the complexity of tilapia management, different anomalous situations have been detected and then defined as exceptions. As a result, 419 records were considered extreme values because 1 or more exceptions were met. The value of the PMI varies from 0 (the worst situation) to 3.55, which reflects high variability. We have constructed a PMI for tilapia as the product of 3 elements to obtain a positive value index. Instead of classic parameters, we had to calculate an adapted version of them: the relative average daily growth, the survival (as a complementary value of the estimated monthly mortality), and a feed conversion ratio index. To assess the utility of the PMI, some comparisons were performed using records from black and red tilapia. We observed significant differences depending on tilapia strain (PMI = 1.0248 vs. PMI = 1.1661; < 0.001), age (better values for small fish), and season (PMI = 1.0847 vs. PMI = 1.1011; = 0.026). According to these results, we can conclude that the PMI could be a useful tool for tilapia farmers, despite the complexity of the calculation.|Journal of animal science|Muniesa;Rey-Castaño;Ruiz-Zarzuela;Guarín;Iregui;de Blas|A;AL;I;M;C;I|eng|United States|Journal Article
27484120|2016|BMC microbiology|Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) is a common pathogen to infect newborn, woman, the elderly, and immuno-compromised human and fish. 37 fish isolates and 554 human isolates of the GBS in 2007-2012 were investigated in serotypes, antibiotic susceptibility, genetic difference and pathogenicity to tilapia.;PCR serotyping determined serotype Ia for all fish GBS isolates and only in 3.2 % (3-4.2 %) human isolates. For fish isolates, all consisted a plasmid less than 6 kb and belonged to ST7 type, which includes mainly pulsotypes I and Ia, with a difference in a deletion at the largest DNA fragment. These fish isolates were susceptible to all antimicrobials tested in 2007 and increased in non-susceptibility to penicillin, and resistance to clindamycin and ceftriaxone in 2011. Differing in pulsotype and lacking plasmid from fish isolates, human serotype Ia isolates were separated into eight pulsotypes II-IX. Main clone ST23 included pulsotypes II and IIa (50 %) and ST483 consisted of pulsotype III. Human serotype Ia isolates were all susceptible to ceftriaxone and penicillin and few were resistant to erythromycin, azithromycin, clindamycin, levofloxacin and moxifloxacine with the resistant rate of 20 % or less. Using tilapia to analyze the pathogenesis, fish isolates could cause more severe symptoms, including hemorrhage of the pectoral fin, hemorrhage of the gill, and viscous black and common scites, and mortality (>95 % for pulsotype I) than the human isolates (<30 %); however, the fish pulostype Ia isolate 912 with deletion caused less symptoms and the lowest mortality (<50 %) than pulsotype I isolates.;Genetic, pathogenic, and antimicrobial differences demonstrate diverse origin of human and fish serotype Ia isolates. The pulsotype Ia of fish serotype Ia isolates may be used as vaccine strains to prevent the GBS infection in fish.|BMC microbiology|Chu;Huang;Chen;Wang;Tsai;Lu;Chen|C;PY;HM;YH;IA;CC;CC|Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Biopharmaceutics, National Chiayi University, Chiayi, 60004, Taiwan, ROC.;Department of Aquatic Biosciences, National Chiayi University, Chiayi, 60004, Taiwan, ROC.;Department of Pediatrics, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan, ROC.;Department of Pediatrics, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan, ROC.;Department of Aquatic Biosciences, National Chiayi University, Chiayi, 60004, Taiwan, ROC.;Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Biopharmaceutics, National Chiayi University, Chiayi, 60004, Taiwan, ROC.;Department of Aquatic Biosciences, National Chiayi University, Chiayi, 60004, Taiwan, ROC. chencc@mail.ncyu.edu.tw.|eng|England|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
25548735|2014|PeerJ|The black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii Rüppell 1852 (Teleostei, Cichlidae) displays remarkable acclimation capacities. When exposed to drastic changes of salinity, which can be the case in its natural habitat, it develops quick physiological responses and keeps reproducing. The present study focused on the physiological impact of salinity on male reproductive capacities, using gene expression as a proxy of acclimation process. Two series of experimental fish were investigated: the first one was composed of fish maintained in freshwater for several generations and newly acclimated to salinities of 35 and 70, whereas the second one consisted of the descendants of the latter born and were raised under their native salinity. Expression patterns of 43 candidate genes previously identified from the testes of wild males was investigated in the three salinities and two generations. Twenty of them showed significant expression differences between salinities, and their predicted function revealed that most of them are involved in the osmotic tolerance of sperm cells and/or in the maintenance of sperm motility. A high level of expression variation was evidenced, especially for fish maintained in freshwater. In spite of this, gene expression patterns allowed the differentiation between fish raised in freshwater and those maintained in hypersaline water in both generations. Altogether, the results presented here suggest that this high variability of expression is likely to ensure the reproductive success of this species under varying salinities.|PeerJ|Avarre;Guinand;Dugué;Cosson;Legendre;Panfili;Durand|JC;B;R;J;M;J;JD|Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier , UMR 226 IRD-CNRS-UM2, Montpellier , France.;Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier , UMR 226 IRD-CNRS-UM2, Montpellier , France.;Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier , UMR 226 IRD-CNRS-UM2, Montpellier , France.;Faculty of Fisheries and Protection of Waters, South Bohemian Research Center of Aquaculture and Biodiversity of Hydrocenoses, Research Institute of Fish Culture and Hydrobiology, University of South Bohemia in Ceske Budejovice , Vodňany , Czech Republic.;Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier , UMR 226 IRD-CNRS-UM2, Montpellier , France.;Ecologie des Systèmes Marins Côtiers , UMR 5119 IRD-UM2-CNRS-IFREMER, Montpellier , France.;Ecologie des Systèmes Marins Côtiers , UMR 5119 IRD-UM2-CNRS-IFREMER, Montpellier , France.|eng|United States|Journal Article
25442635|2015|Food chemistry|Ikan pekasam is a fermented fish product produced in Malaysia and is usually made from freshwater fish with ground roasted uncooked rice as the main source of carbohydrate. In this study, the amino acid, biogenic amine, and trans- and cis-urocanic acid (UCA) contents of fifteen commercial samples of Ikan pekasam made from Javanese carp and black tilapia, that had undergone either natural or acid-assisted fermentation, were quantified. The latter includes either tamarind (Tamarindus indica) pulp or dried slices of Garcinia atroviridis fruit in the fermentation process. Results showed that there are no significant differences in most of the biogenic amines including histamine, while there are significant differences in total UCA content, and trans- and cis-UCA contents between the two samples. Differences in the amino acid contents were largely fish-dependent.|Food chemistry|Ezzat;Zare;Karim;Ghazali|MA;D;R;HM|Faculty Food Science and Technology, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 UPM Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.;Faculty Food Science and Technology, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 UPM Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.;Faculty Food Science and Technology, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 UPM Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.;Faculty Food Science and Technology, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 UPM Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia. Electronic address: hasanah@upm.edu.my.|eng|England|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
25216801|2016|Toxicology and industrial health|This study presents an overview of the existence and effects of six heavy metals, chromium (Cr), lead (Pb), cadmium (Cd), mercury (Hg), manganese (Mn), and aluminum (Al), in tannery effluents released to the Buriganga River in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The pollutants were found in three different sources, such as effluents from tanneries, contaminated river water and three species of fish-climbing perch (Anabas testudineus), spotted snakehead (Channa punctata), and Black tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus) caught from the river. Tannery effluents, water, and fish samples were collected from three different factories, five sample stations, and three different harvesting points, respectively. Effluents from all three factories contained significant amounts of heavy metals, especially Cr (374.19 ppm in average), whereas lesser amounts were found in the tissues of the three fish species studied. The trends in tissue elemental concentrations of fish were Cr > Pb > Al > Hg > Mn > Cd. In most cases (Cr, Cd, Mn, and Al), heavy metal concentrations were found to be greater in climbing perch than in Black tilapia and spotted snakehead. Although the river water contained high concentrations of harmful heavy metals, the fish species under study had concentrations well below the permissible Food and Agriculture Organization/World Health Organization levels for those metals and seemed to be safe for human consumption.|Toxicology and industrial health|Asaduzzaman;Hasan;Rajia;Khan;Kabir|M;I;S;N;KA|Department of Applied Chemistry and Chemical Technology, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, Bangladesh zlikhon2010@gmail.com.;Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh Laboratory of Glycobiology and Marine Biochemistry, Department of Life and Environmental System Science, Graduate School of NanoBio Sciences, Yokohama City University, Yokohama, Japan.;Department of Natural Science, Varendra University, Rajshahi, Bangladesh.;WorldFish Center, Bangladesh and South Asia Office, Dhaka, Bangladesh.;WorldFish Center, Bangladesh and South Asia Office, Dhaka, Bangladesh.|eng|England|Journal Article
24936294|2014|Food science & nutrition|This study was done to evaluate the drying performance, efficiency, and effectiveness of five different types of improved low-cost solar driers in terms of moisture loss from two tropical African fish species Clarias gariepinus (African sharp tooth catfish) and Oreochromis niloticus (Nile tilapia) and testing the organoleptic characteristics of the dried samples. The driers used were made from plastic, aluminum, glass, glass with black igneous stone, and mosquito net, with traditional direct open-sun drying as a control. A significant (P < 0.05) decrease in weight resulting from moisture loss in the two fish species was observed in all the driers, with the highest reduction occurring in the glass drier containing black stone. The rate of weight loss was faster in the first 4 days of drying with black stone-inserted glass drier showing the fastest drying rate with a constant weight in C. gariepinus attained on the 11th day and in O. niloticus on the eighth day. The slowest drier was plastic where a constant weight of the species were recorded on and 13th day and 11th day, respectively. Volunteers were used to assess the organoleptic characteristics of the dried samples and they showed lowest acceptability for the open-sun drying, while samples from the glass drier containing black stone had the highest acceptability in terms of the taste, flavor, appearance, texture, odor, palatability, and shelf-life. The low-cost solar driers were effective found in removing water from the fish resulting in significant loss of weight and moisture. The highest drying time, efficient performance, drying effectiveness, and high acceptability of the organoleptic parameters of the dried products from the black stone-inserted glass drier were due to the ability of the glass and the black stone to retain, transmit, and radiate heat to the fish sample all the time (day and night). These low-cost driers are simple to construct, materials for its construction readily available, easy to maintain and operate, hygienic in use, reliable, effective, occupies less area, dry products faster with increased shelf-life, save man-hour, user-friendly, use renewable energy, protect the drying samples from filthiness, wetness, and invasion by pests, insects, and microbes, with well-dried, high-quality, and better preserved final products. The adoption and use any of these low-cost solar driers by artisanal fishermen and general household in sub-Saharan Africa will not only help in reducing post catch losses, but also ensure food safety and security as there is abundant solar energy in these sub-Saharan African tropical countries for the operation of the driers.|Food science & nutrition|Mustapha;Ajibola;Salako;Ademola|MK;TB;AF;SK|Department of Zoology, University of Ilorin Ilorin, Nigeria.;Department of Physics, University of Ilorin Ilorin, Nigeria.;Department of Zoology, University of Ilorin Ilorin, Nigeria.;Department of Zoology, University of Ilorin Ilorin, Nigeria.|eng|United States|Journal Article
24239097|2014|Marine pollution bulletin|The major aim of this study was to investigate heavy metal content of edible fish in the PRD. Eleven species of fish (consisting of 711 individuals) [catfish (Clarias fuscus), tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus), grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idellus), bighead carp (Aristichthys nobilis), mandarin fish (Siniperca kneri), snakehead (Channa asiatiea), black bass (Micropterus salmoides), mangrove snapper (Lutjanus griseus), star snapper (Lutjanu stellatus), snubnose pompano (Trachinotus blochii) and orange-spotted grouper (Epinephelus coioides)] were collected for the analyses of heavy metals. Overall concentrations (mg/kg, ww) in the fish muscles were: As (0.03-1.53), Pb (0.03-8.62), Cd (0.02-0.06), Ni (0.44-9.75), Zn (15.7-29.5), Cr (0.22-0.65), Cu (0.79-2.26), Mn (0.82-6.91). Significant level of Pb were found in tilapia at all locations. It is recommended that heavy metal concentrations in different fish species must be determined on a regular basis in the future so as to reduce human health risks from acute and chronic food intoxication.|Marine pollution bulletin|Leung;Leung;Wang;Ma;Liang;Ho;Cheung;Tohidi;Yung|HM;AO;HS;KK;Y;KC;KC;F;KK|Department of Biology, Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, PR China.;Department of Biology, Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, PR China.;Department of Microbial and Biochemical Pharmacy, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, PR China.;Department of Biology, Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, PR China.;Department of Biology, Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, PR China.;School of Science and Technology, The Open University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, PR China.;Department of Applied Sciences, Institute of Vocational Education (Chai Wan), Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, PR China.;Department of Chemistry, Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, PR China.;Department of Biology, Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, PR China. Electronic address: kklyung@hkbu.edu.hk.|eng|England|Journal Article
23932254|2013|Comptes rendus biologies|There is growing evidence that climate change has greatly altered environmental conditions in many aquatic ecosystems over the last decades, leading to changes in fish distribution and life history traits. Recent works conducted in Senegalese and Gambian coastal marine, estuarine and freshwater ecosystems have shown important changes in the intensity, frequency and breeding timing of wild population of Sarotherodon melanotheron in response to changes in salinity regimes. In addition to salinity, this study investigates the potential influences of other environmental factors that have received less attention on the reproduction of S. melanotheron from three different aquatic ecosystems in Senegal. The results demonstrate that day-length and temperature affect sexual maturity in both males and females from Guiers Lake and Hann Bay, but no such effects were found in upstream of the Saloum Estuary, where the spawning activity seems to be under the synergetic control of rainfall and salinity that apparently predominate over all the other ambient factors. This study demonstrated for the first time that aside from photoperiod and temperature, rainfall also influences fish reproduction in Hann Bay probably through its effects on water quality. Furthermore, our results confirm previous findings that changes in salinity regimes resulting from seasonal variations in precipitation and evaporation are the ultimate causes of temporal changes in the reproductive activity of the species in this estuary.|Comptes rendus biologies|Guèye;Kantoussan;Tine|M;J;M|IRD, route des hydrocarbures, BP, Dakar, Senegal.|eng|France|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
23889972|2014|Molecular ecology resources|The black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii is an ecologically appealing model as it shows exceptional adaptive capacities, especially with regard to salinity. In spite of this, this species is devoid of genomic resources, which impedes the understanding of such remarkable features. De novo assembly of transcript sequences produced by next-generation sequencing technologies offers a rapid approach to obtain expressed gene sequences for non-model organisms. It also facilitates the development of quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) assays for analysing gene expression under different environmental conditions. Nevertheless, obtaining accurate and reliable qPCR results from such data requires a number of validations prior to interpretation. The transcriptome of S. melanotheron was sequenced to discover transcripts potentially involved in the plasticity of male reproduction in response to salinity variations. A set of 54 candidate and reference genes was selected through a digital gene expression (DGE) approach, and a de novo qPCR assay using these genes was validated for further detailed expression analyses. A user-friendly web interface was created for easy handling of the sequence data. This sequence collection represents a major transcriptomic resource for S. melanotheron and will provide a useful tool for functional genomics and genetics studies.|Molecular ecology resources|Avarre;Dugué;Alonso;Diombokho;Joffrois;Faivre;Cochet;Durand|JC;R;P;A;C;N;C;JD|Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier, UMR 226 IRD-CNRS-UM2, BP5095, Montpellier Cedex 05, 34196, France.|eng|England|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
23840535|2013|PloS one|Multiple single case reports of asphyxiation in dolphins caused by fish lodged in the esophagus exist. However, the significance of this cause of mortality in a single population has not been documented. We performed a retrospective evaluation of pathology records from stranded bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) from the Indian River Lagoon to evaluate the impact of this cause of death on this population. From 1997 to 2011, asphyxiation due to choking was identified as the cause of death in 14 of 350 cases (4%). Sampling of an unrelated but adjacent population over this same period yielded 186 necropsy cases of bottlenose dolphins with no cases of asphyxiation. Asphyxiated animals presented with a fish lodged in the cranial esophagus associated with a dislocated and obstructed or compressed larynx. There was no clear sex predilection. Affected animals included 12 adults and two juveniles. The fish species involved included sheepshead, black chin tilapia and striped mojarra. In five cases, recreational fishing gear was also present. Cetacean choking is related to selection of prey fish species with strong dorsal spines and may be secondarily associated with fish attached to fishing gear. Prey abundance and dolphin behavior may influence these selections. Environmental alterations leading to changes in prey availability or increased interactions with fishing gear may change the significance of fatal choking in dolphin populations.|PloS one|Stolen;St Leger;Durden;Mazza;Nilson|M;J;WN;T;E|Hubbs-SeaWorld Research Institute, Melbourne Beach, Florida, United States of America.|eng|United States|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't;Research Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S.
22843312|2013|Fish physiology and biochemistry|This study aims to investigate the genes encoding prolactin (PRL) and prolactin receptors (PRLR) and their tissue-specific expression in starry flounder Platichthys stellatus. Starry flounder PRL gene consisting of five exons encodes an ORF of 212 amino acid residue comprised of a putative signal peptide of 24 amino acids and a mature protein of 188 amino acids. It showed amino acid identities of 73 % with tuna Thunnus thynnus, 71 % with black porgy Acanthopagrus schlegelii, 69 % with Nile tilapia Oreochromis niloticus, 64 % with pufferfish Takifugu rubripes, 63 % with rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss, and 60 % with mangrove rivulus Kryptolebias marmoratus. Phylogenetic analysis of piscine PRLs also demonstrated a similarity between starry flounder and other teleosts but with a broad distinction from non-teleost PRLs. PRLR gene consists of eight exons encoding a protein of 528 amino acid residues. It showed a similarity to the PRLR2 subtype as reflected by amino acid identities of 54 % with A. schlegelii, 48.1 % with K. marmoratus, 46.3 % with tilapia O. mossambicus, and 46.1 % with O. niloticus PRLR2 as compared to PRLR1 isoform having less than 30 % identities. While mRNA transcript corresponding to PRL was detected only from the pituitary, most of PRLR mRNA was detected in the gill, kidney, and intestine, with a small amount in the ovary. The level of PRL transcript progressively increased during 6 days of acclimation to freshwater and then decreased but stayed higher than that of seawater at 60 days of acclimation. An opposite pattern of changes including a decrease at the beginning of the acclimation but a slight increase in the level osmolality was found as adaptation continued. The results support the osmoregulatory role of PRL signaling in starry flounder.|Fish physiology and biochemistry|Noh;Lim;Kim|GE;HK;JM|Department of Fishery Biology, Pukyong National University, Busan 608-737, Republic of Korea.|eng|Netherlands|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
22645008|2012|Environmental science and pollution research international|The study highlights the potential of the black-chinned tilapia to be used as a sentinel to assess environmental contaminants based on the use of a set of biomarkers. The usefulness of fish species as sentinels for assessing aquatic environment contamination was tested using a set of biomarkers in Senegalese environments characterized by multi-pollution sources. The black-chinned tilapia (Sarotherodon melanotheron) was selected as a sentinel because of its abundance, wide distribution in all coastal aquatic ecosystems and physiological properties. The potential influence of confounding factors such as salinity on biomarker in the tilapia has been examined. Individuals were sampled during two seasons (dry and wet) in eight sites characterized by various degrees of anthropogenic contamination and different salinities (from 0 to 102 psu). Biomarkers-including growth rate (GR), condition factor (CF), biotransformation enzymes such as 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST), lipid peroxidation (TBARS) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-were measured. Chemical contaminant [polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and organochlorine pesticides (OCPs)] levels showed different sources of contamination with relatively high concentrations of PAHs in the Hann Bay and Foundiougne locations. The most sensitive biomarker present in different sites according to the principal component analysis is EROD. Few variations of the AChE activity and TBARS levels were found. No clear relationship was found between biomarker responses and salinity, but GR and CF were lower in hypersaline conditions. Tilapia is responsive to environmental contaminants such as PAHs, OCPs and PCBs. The S. melanotheron multiparametric approach showed a better discrimination of sites.|Environmental science and pollution research international|Ndiaye;Sanchez;Durand;Budzinski;Palluel;Diouf;Ndiaye;Panfili|A;W;JD;H;O;K;P;J|UMR 5119 ECOSYM, Université Montpellier 2, place Eugène Bataillon, CC 093, 34095, Montpellier Cedex 5, France. awa.ndiaye@ird.fr|eng|Germany|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
22471799|2012|Journal of fish biology|This study evaluated variation in expression of 11 genes within and among six wild populations of the black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron distributed along a salinity gradient from 0 to 100. Previous laboratory studies had shown that expression of these genes was sensitive to water salinity; the current study confirmed that a number of them also varied in expression in wild populations along the salinity gradient. Principal component analysis (PCA) first distinguished two, not mutually exclusive, sets of genes: trade-off genes that were highly expressed at one or other extreme of the salinity gradient and stress genes that were up-regulated at the two salinity extremes (i.e. a U-shaped expression pattern). The PCA clearly partitioned the populations into three groups based on their gene expression patterns and their position along the salinity gradient: a freshwater (GL; 0) population, four brackish and seawater (GB, HB, SM, SF; ranging from 20 to 50) populations and a hypersaline (SK, 100) population. Individual variation in gene expression was significantly greater within the populations at the extreme compared to intermediate salinities. These results reveal phenotypically plastic regulation of gene expression in S. melanotheron, and greater osmoregulatory and plasticity costs at extreme salinities, where fitness-related traits are known to be altered.|Journal of fish biology|Tine;Guinand;Durand|M;B;JD|Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Ihnestrasse 63-73, D-14195 Berlin, Germany. tine@molgen.mpg.de|eng|England|Journal Article
22422294|2012|Journal of comparative physiology. B, Biochemical, systemic, and environmental physiology|The effect of salinity was studied in natural populations of the black-chinned tilapia (Sarotherodon melanotheron) from West Africa. This euryhaline species colonizes nearly all coastal environments from bays to lagoons characterized by salinities ranging from fresh water to hypersaline water over 100 ‰. Individuals were sampled during the dry season at several locations characterized by different levels of salinity (3-102 ‰). Their osmotic status and their gills were analyzed. The branchial mitochondria-rich cells (MRC), localized at the basis of the filaments and along the lamellae in fish taken from the saline stations, showed a wide plasticity with significant differences in their number and size. The most striking results were a significant larger area (≈3x) and a higher number (≈55x) of MRC at high salinity (102 ‰) compared to low salinity (3 ‰). The major ion transporters and channels were localized by immunocytochemistry and different expression patterns have been recorded between stations. Despite an increased Na⁺/K⁺-ATPase (NKA) α-subunit expression and NKA activity, pointing to an increased monovalent ion excretion, a severe osmotic imbalance was recorded in animals living in hypersaline environments.|Journal of comparative physiology. B, Biochemical, systemic, and environmental physiology|Lorin-Nebel;Avarre;Faivre;Wallon;Charmantier;Durand|C;JC;N;S;G;JD|AEO Team "Adaptation Ecophysiologique et Ontogenèse", UMR 5119, ECOSYM-UM2, IRD, IFREMER, CNRS, CC 092, 34095 Montpellier Cedex 05, France. catherine.lorin@univ-montp2.fr|eng|Germany|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
22253726|2012|PloS one|The black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron is a marine teleost characterised by an extreme euryhalinity. However, beyond a certain threshold at very high salinity, the species exhibits impaired growth and precocious reproduction. In this study, the relationships between reproductive parameters, environmental salinity and condition factor were investigated in wild populations of this species that were sampled in two consecutive years (2003 and 2004) from three locations in Senegal with different salinities: Guiers lake (freshwater, 0 psu), Hann bay (seawater, 37 psu) and Saloum estuary (hypersaline water, 66-127 psu). The highest absolute fecundity and spawning weight were recorded in seawater by comparison to either freshwater or hypersaline water whereas the poorest condition factors were observed in the most saline sampling site. These results reflect higher resource allocation to the reproduction due to the lowest costs of adaptation to salinity in seawater (the natural environment of this species) rather than differences in food resources at sites and/or efficiency at foraging and prey availability. Fecundities, oocyte size as well as spawning weight were consistent from year to year. However, the relative fecundity in the Saloum estuary varied significantly between the dry and rainy raisons with higher values in the wet season, which seems to reflect seasonal variations in environmental salinity. Such a reproductive tactic of producing large amounts of eggs in the rainy season when the salinity in the estuary was lower, would give the fry a better chance at survival and therefore assures a high larval recruitment. An inverse correlation was found between relative fecundity and oocyte size at the two extreme salinity locations, indicating that S. melanotheron has different reproductive strategies in these ecosystems. The adaptive significance of these two reproductive modes is discussed in regard to the heavy osmotic constraint imposed by extreme salinities and high inter-specific competition.|PloS one|Guèye;Tine;Kantoussan;Ndiaye;Thiaw;Albaret|M;M;J;P;OT;JJ|IRD, Route des Hydrocarbures, Dakar, Sénégal.|eng|United States|Comparative Study;Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
22246475|2012|Bulletin of environmental contamination and toxicology|The seasonal accumulation of cadmium, copper, lead, mercury and zinc was determined in sediments, water, and black-chinned tilapia (Sarotherodon melanotheron; muscle, brain, kidney and liver tissues) collected monthly from Biétri Bay. The mean water concentration of metals (in mg L(-1)) ranged from 0.01 to 0.30 (mercury), 0.02-0.26 (cadmium), 2.40-4.80 (lead), 9.05-9.68 (copper), and 12.05-19.87 (zinc). The seasonal variations showed a significant difference in the levels of mercury, cadmium and lead among season. The highest mercury (0.30 ± 0.02 μg L(-1)), cadmium (0.26 ± 0.02 mg L(-1)) and lead (4.80 ± 1.03 mg L(-1)) levels were observed during dry season, while the lowest levels (0.21 ± 0.01, 0.02 ± 0.01 and 2.40 ± 0.02 mg L(-1), respectively mercury, cadmium and lead) were measured during rainy season. The average cadmium (0.58 ± 0.36 mg L(-1)), copper (42.15 ± 19.40 mg L(-1)), lead (58.47 ± 38.10 mg kg(-1)), mercury (0.79 ± 0.47 μg kg(-1)) and zinc (187.58 ± 76.99 mg kg(-1)) concentrations determined in Biétri Bay sediments showed a similar trend as in water. The seasonal variations of mercury, cadmium and lead in tissues revealed that these metals were higher concentrated during dry and swelling seasons. The levels of zinc and copper followed by lead were higher in the tissues. The order of tissues metals concentrations was: kidney > liver > brain > muscle.|Bulletin of environmental contamination and toxicology|Coulibaly;Atse;Koffi;Sylla;Konan;Kouassi|S;BC;KM;S;KJ;NJ|Laboratoire d'Hydrobiologie, Université de Cocody, UFR Biosciences, 22 BP 582, Abidjan, 22, Côte d'Ivoire.|eng|United States|Journal Article
20725718|2011|Archives of environmental contamination and toxicology|Seven estrogenic compounds--estrone (E1), 17β-estradiol (E2), 17α-ethynylestradiol (EE2), diethylstilbestrol (DES), nonylphenol (NP), octylphenol (OP), and bisphenol A (BPA)--in sediments, surface water, pore water, and organisms were investigated and estrogenic activities were estimated by examining estradiol equivalent (EEQ) concentrations in Yundang Lagoon of Xiamen. The results showed that estrogenic compounds were present in all matrixes of interest: in surface water, ranging from 609.61 to 711.31 ng/l; in pore water, ranging from 562.12 to 1038.15 ng/l; in sediments, ranging from 1433.12 to 2060.41 ng/g; and in biota samples, ranging from 1373.76 to 3199.09 ng/g (lipid weight). NP was the predominant component in all collected samples and the highest concentration was 1964.80 ng/g in sediment. Total EEQ ranged from 4.56 to 13.79 ng/l in surface water, from 2.40 to 17.16 ng/l in pore water, and from 8.66 to 23.95 ng/g in sediments. However, major contributors to total EEQ concentrations were E2, E1, and DES. The EEQ concentrations in surface water samples were at a higher level in comparison to that reported in European countries. To biological sample, the highest level of total estrogenic compounds was found in the short-necked clam. Higher values of the biota-sediment accumulation factor (BSAF) were found in short-necked clam and black seabream, indicating that the living habits of organism and physical-chemical properties of estrogenic compounds might influence the bioavailability of estrogenic compounds in organisms.|Archives of environmental contamination and toxicology|Zhang;Gao;Li;Li;Guo;Yan|X;Y;Q;G;Q;C|Key Lab of Urban Environment and Health, Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 361021, People's Republic of China.|eng|United States|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
20429891|2010|BMC ecology|The relationship between environmental variation and induction of heat shock proteins (Hsps) has been much documented under experimental conditions. However, very little is known about such induction in natural populations acclimatised to prevailing environmental conditions. Furthermore, while induction of stress proteins has been well documented in response to environmental contaminants and thermal stressors, little is known about whether factors, such as extreme salinity, are also potential inductors. The black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron is unusual for its ability to colonise estuarine environments in West Africa that are characterised by extremely high salinities. The relationships between mRNA levels of the 70 kDa heat shock protein (Hsp70) and Na+, K+-ATPase1alpha (Naka) in the gills, environmental salinity, and a life-history trait (condition factor) were investigated in wild populations of this species sampled from three locations in the Saloum estuary, at salinities ranging from 40 to 100 psu.;The highest Hsp70 and Naka mRNA levels, and the poorest condition factors were recorded in the most saline sampling site (100 psu). The Hsp70 and Naka mRNA were correlated amongst themselves and showed a direct positive correlation with environmental salinity, and a negative correlation with fish condition factor. Thus, the Hsp70 is constitutively overexpressed by S. melanotheron acclimatised to extreme hypersalinity.;These results indicate that, although S. melanotheron can colonise extremely saline environments, the overexpression of Hsp70 combined with the higher Naka mRNA expression reveals that this represents a chronic stress. The induction of Hsp70 was, therefore, a biomarker of chronic hyper-osmotic stress which presumably can be linked to the impaired growth performance and precocious reproduction that have been demonstrated in the populations at the extremely saline sites.|BMC ecology|Tine;Bonhomme;McKenzie;Durand|M;F;DJ;JD|Biologie Intégrative ISEM CNRS-UMR 5554, Université Montpellier II, Station Méditerranéenne de l'Environnement Littoral, 1 quai de la Daurade, Sète, France. tine@molgen.mpg.de|eng|England|Journal Article
20134420|2010|Nature protocols|The scototaxis (dark/light preference) protocol is a behavioral model for fish that is being validated to assess the antianxiety effects of pharmacological agents and the behavioral effects of toxic substances, and to investigate the (epi)genetic bases of anxiety-related behavior. Briefly, a fish is placed in a central compartment of a half-black, half-white tank; following habituation, the fish is allowed to explore the tank for 15 min; the number and duration of entries in each compartment (white or black) are recorded by the observer for the whole session. Zebrafish, goldfish, guppies and tilapias (all species that are important in behavioral neurosciences and neuroethology) have been shown to demonstrate a marked preference for the dark compartment. An increase in white compartment activity (duration and/or entries) should reflect antianxiety behavior, whereas an increase in dark compartment activity should reflect anxiety-promoting behavior. When individual animals are exposed to the apparatus on only one occasion, results can be obtained in 20 min per fish.|Nature protocols|Maximino;Marques de Brito;Dias;Gouveia;Morato|C;T;CA;A;S|Laboratório de Neurociências e Comportamento, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Para, Belém, Brazil. caio@ufpa.br|eng|England|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
19286018|2009|Analytica chimica acta|In May 2007, investigators discovered that waste material from the pet food manufacturing process contaminated with melamine (MEL) and/or cyanuric acid (CYA) had been added to hog and chicken feeds. At this time, investigators also learned that adulterated wheat gluten had been used in the manufacture of aquaculture feeds. Concern that the contaminated feed had been used in aquaculture and could enter the human food supply prompted the development of a method for the determination of CYA residues in the edible tissues of fish and shrimp. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was employed as a sensitive technique for the analysis of CYA in catfish, tilapia, salmon, trout and shrimp tissue. CYA was extracted from ground fish or shrimp with an acetic acid solution, defatted with hexane, and isolated with a graphitic carbon black solid-phase extraction column. Residues were separated from matrix components using a porous graphitic carbon LC column, and then analyzed with electrospray ionization in negative ion mode on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer. Selective reaction monitoring was performed on the [M-H](-)m/z 128 ion resulting in the product ions m/z 85 and 42. Recoveries from catfish, tilapia and trout fortified with 10-100 microgkg(-1) of CYA averaged 67% with a relative standard deviation (R.S.D.) of 18% (n=107). The average method detection limit (MDL) for catfish, tilapia and trout is 3.5 microgkg(-1). An internal standard, (13)C(3)-labeled CYA, was used in the salmon and shrimp extractions. Average recovery of CYA from salmon was 91% (R.S.D.=15%, n=18) with an MDL of 7.4 microgkg(-1). Average recovery of CYA from shrimp was 85% (R.S.D.=10%, n=13) with an MDL of 3.5 microgkg(-1).|Analytica chimica acta|Karbiwnyk;Andersen;Turnipseed;Storey;Madson;Miller;Gieseker;Miller;Rummel;Reimschuessel|CM;WC;SB;JM;MR;KE;CM;RA;NG;R|Animal Drugs Research Center, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, P.O. Box 25087, Denver, CO 80225-0087, USA.|eng|Netherlands|Journal Article;Validation Study
19272315|2009|Comparative biochemistry and physiology. Part B, Biochemistry & molecular biology|Prolactin (PRL) has been shown to directly influence parental-care associated behavior in many vertebrate species. The discus fish (Symphysodon aequifasciata) displays extensive parental care behavior through utilization of epidermal mucosal secretion to raise free-swimming fry. Here, we cloned the full-length cDNA sequence of the S. aequifasciata prolactin receptor (dfPRLR) and investigated the mRNA expression pattern in several adult tissues. Bioinformatic analysis showed the dfPRLR shared rather high identity (79 and 67%) with the Nile tilapia PRLR 1 and black seabream PRLR 1, respectively. The presence of dfPRLR in several osmoregulatory tissues including kidney, gill and intestine is consistent with the known role of PRL in mediating hydromineral balance in teleosts. In addition, upregulated expression of PRLR mRNA was observed in skin of parental fish compared to non-parental fish, indicating possibility of a role of the PRL hormonal signaling in regulation of mucus production in relation to parental care behaviour.|Comparative biochemistry and physiology. Part B, Biochemistry & molecular biology|Khong;Kuah;Jaya-Ram;Shu-Chien|HK;MK;A;AC|School of Biological Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800, Minden, Penang, Malaysia.|eng|England|Journal Article
18817158|2008|Pakistan journal of biological sciences : PJBS|A survey was conducted during January to December 2006 to assess the status of faunal diversity of Savar Upazila, Dhaka, Bangladesh. A total of 30 species of birds, 24 species of winter birds, 7 species of reptiles, 3 species of amphibians, 15 species of mammalians and 32 species of fishes were recorded. Relative abundance of those species were determined. Of the birds, House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) was abundant while Blyth's Kingfisher (Alcedo hercules), Rock Eagle Owl (Bubo bengalensis), Hooded Pitta (Pitta sordida), Black-headed Oriole (Oriolus xanthornus), White-winged Duck (Cairina seululala) and Duck (Anser indicus) were rare. The relative abundance of winter bird could not be assessed because of their migratory habit. Striped keelback (Amphiesma stolata) and Common Smooth Water Snake (Enhydris enhydris) were very common while Black pond turtle (Geoclyms hamiltonii) and Pond tortoise (Melanochelys trijuga) were recorded as endangered. Common Toad (Bufo melanostictus) were abundant but Bull Frog (Rana tigrina) was rare. Asiatic Wild Dog (Cuon alpinus) and House Mouse (Mus musculus) were abundant while Common Otter, Large Indian Civet, Irrawaddy River Dolphin, Indian Hare were rare. Carpu, Silver carp, Tilapia, Nilotica were abundant while, Freshwater Garfish, One stripe spinyeel and Grey Featherback were rare. Landfilling, deforestation, poaching, industrial effluents and current jal were identified as major threats to the faunal diversity of Savar area.|Pakistan journal of biological sciences : PJBS|Hossain;Chowdhury;Iqubal|E;MM;KF|Department of Environmental Science, State University of Bangladesh, 77 Satmasjid Road, Dhanmondi, Dhaka-1205, Bangladesh.|eng|Pakistan|Journal Article
21798160|Marine genomics|The Prolactin I (PrlI) gene is a key locus involved in fish osmotic regulation. Two microsatellites, PrlI GT and PrlI AC, are present in the promoter region of this gene in tilapias. One of these microsatellite is associated to PrlI gene expression and growth rate. Aquaria reared individuals homozygous for long microsatellite alleles at the PrlI AC locus expressed less PrlI in fresh water than fishes with other genotypes. To assess the occurrence of selection acting on these microsatellites we carried out a survey of their variability compared with four others microsatellites in natural populations. Samples of two tilapia species were studied, Oreochromis niloticus (6 samples) a typically freshwater species inhabiting osmotically stable environments and Sarotherodon melanotheron (5 samples) a brackish water species obliged and able to adapt very rapidly to any salinity changes. For both species the different populations studied exhibited a high amount of differentiation (all F(st) value were statistically significant) at every loci. Only one locus, PrlI AC, was monomorphic for the same allele in all S. melanotheron populations. We have hypothesized that this outlier locus with its unique allele could have experienced a selective sweep that took place in the early stages of the species origin. S. melanotheron represents an example of adaptation (to fluctuant salinity environment) acting indirectly on gene product through its promoter.|Marine genomics|Agnèse;Adépo-Gourène;Nyingi|JF;B;D|Laboratoire Biologie Intégrative, UM2 - IFREMER - CNRS UMR 5554, Université de Montpellier II, cc 63 - Place E Bataillon F-34095 Montpellier Cedex 5, France; Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, 213 rue La Fayette, 75480, Paris CEDEX 10, France.|eng|Netherlands|Journal Article
21798152|2008|Marine genomics|Sarotherodon melanotheron is one of the most euryhaline teleosts able to withstand variations in environmental salinity ranging from freshwater (FW) to 130‰ hyper-saline waters (HSW). Although significant progress has been made in exploring the cellular and molecular changes that accompany salinity adaptation in teleosts, little is known about the effects of long-term acclimation to HSW. We sought to identify in this tilapia species the genes whose transcription is induced by long-term acclimation either to HSW or FW. Two subtractive cDNA libraries were made from gills of fish acclimated for 45 days to either condition, with 320 partial cDNA sequences encoding proteins potentially involved in the response to the two salinity extremes. The ESTs comparisons with genomic databases allowed putative functions to be attributed to 197 of these genes. The suppression subtractive hybridisation (SSH) results were validated by Real-time PCR for 13 candidate genes having presumably a role in osmoregulation, supplemented by Na(+), K(+)-ATPase α-subunit and carbonic anhydrase, two genes known to be implicated in this function. In fish acclimated to both salinity extremes, the functional category of cellular process was the predominant one, which may indicate high cellular turnover rates in FW and HSW-adapted fish. The acclimation to FW and HSW also appeared to trigger the expression of genes involved in transport activity, biological regulation and metabolic processes, at a higher level in fish acclimated to HSW, suggesting higher metabolic activity in this situation. These results are a first step towards the identification of key molecular processes involved in the fish acclimation to extreme salinities.|Marine genomics|Tine;de Lorgeril;D'Cotta;Pepey;Bonhomme;Baroiller;Durand|M;J;H;E;F;JF;JD|Biologie Intégrative ISEM CNRS-UMR 5554 (Université Montpellier II), Station Méditerranéenne de l'Environnement Littoral, 1 quai de la Daurade, Sète 34200, France; UR070 (IRD), route des hydrocarbures, BP 1386, 18524 Dakar, Sénégal.|eng|Netherlands|Journal Article
18236629|2007|Journal of aquatic animal health|In 2004, cultured Nile tilapia Oreochromis niloticus in several Latin America farms began to succumb to a disease similar to the piscirickettsiosis-like syndrome previously reported in tilapia in Taiwan and the United States. Mortality increased during 2005; reductions in tilapia biomass ranged from 5% to 80% in individual ponds and averaged 50% overall. All ages of fish have been involved. Clinical signs include lethargy, loss of appetite, petechia, exophthalmia, and abnormal swimming behavior. Gross lesions have included splenomegaly, renomegaly, and numerous white nodules observed in the spleen, kidney, testes, heart, ovaries, and occasionally the liver. A previously unreported black granulomatous lesion was reported in up to 30% of the fillets. Histologically, granulomatous infiltrates were observed in the kidney, spleen, liver, testes, ovary, and choroid gland, and rarely in the brain and heart. A small pleomorphic bacterium was observed in Giemsa-stained blood smears and spleen imprints. The bacterium did not grow on standard microbiological media and has not been isolated in cell culture. We obtained a near-complete 16S ribosomal DNA sequence with high similarity to Francisella spp. sequences previously identified in tilapias Oreochromis spp. (Taiwan), Atlantic cod Gadus morhua (Norway), and three-line grunts Parapristipoma trilineatum (Japan).|Journal of aquatic animal health|Mauel;Soto;Moralis;Hawke|MJ;E;JA;J|Thad Cochran National Warmwater Aquaculture Center, College of Veterinary Medicine, Mississippi State University, Post Office Box 197, Stoneville, Mississippi 38776, USA. mauel@cvm.msstate.edu|eng|United States|Journal Article
17641286|2007|The Journal of endocrinology|Two prolactin receptors (PRLRs) encoded by two different genes were identified in the fugu and zebrafish genomes but not in the genomes of other vertebrates. Subsequently, two cDNA sequences corresponding to two PRLRs were identified in black seabream and Nile tilapia. Phylogenetic analysis of PRLR sequences in various vertebrates indicated that the coexistence of two PRLRs in a single species is a unique phenomenon in teleosts. Both PRLRs in teleosts (the classical one named as PRLR1, the newly identified one as PRLR2) resemble the long-form mammalian PRLRs. However, despite their overall structural similarities, the two PRLR subtypes in fish share very low amino acid similarities (about 30%), mainly due to differences in the intracellular domain. In particular, the Box 2 region and some intracellular tyrosine residues are missing in PRLR2. Tissue distribution study by real-time PCR in black seabream (sb) revealed that both receptors (sbPRLR1 and sbPRLR2) are widely expressed in different tissues. In gill, the expression level of sbPRLR2 is much higher than that of sbPRLR1. In the intestine, the expression of sbPRLR1 is higher than that of sbPRLR2. The expression levels of both receptors are relatively low in most other tissues, with sbPRLR1 generally higher than sbPRLR2. The sbPRLR1 and sbPRLR2 were functionally expressed in cultured human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Both receptors can activate the beta-casein and c-fos promoters; however, only sbPRLR1 but not sbPRLR2 can activate the Spi promoter upon receptor stimulation in a ligand-specific manner. These results indicate that both receptors share some common functions but are distinctly different from each other in mobilizing post-receptor events. When challenged with different steroid hormones, the two PRLRs exhibited very different gene expression patterns in the seabream kidney. The sbPRLR1 expression was up-regulated by estradiol and cortisol, whereas testosterone had no significant effect. For sbPRLR2, its expression was down-regulated by estradiol and testosterone, while cortisol exerted no significant effect. The 5'-flanking regions of the sbPRLR1 and sbPRLR2 genes were cloned and the promoter activities were studied in transfected GAKS cells in the absence or presence of different steroid hormones. The results of the promoter studies were in general agreement with the in vivo hormonal regulation of gene expression results. The sbPRLR1 gene promoter activity was activated by estradiol and cortisol, but not by testosterone. In contrast, the sbPRLR2 gene promoter activity was inhibited by estradiol, cortisol, and testosterone.|The Journal of endocrinology|Huang;Jiao;Fung;Zhang;Ho;Chan;Lin;Wang;Cheng|X;B;CK;Y;WK;CB;H;D;CH|Key Laboratory of Eco-environments in Three Gorges Reservoir Region (Ministry of Education), Key Laboratory of Aquatic Science of Chongqing, School of Life Science, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.|eng|England|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
17490906|2007|Comparative biochemistry and physiology. Part B, Biochemistry & molecular biology|The effects of salinity on the expression of genes coding for growth hormone (GH) and prolactin-1 (PRL1) were studied in various natural populations of the black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron from West Africa. Individuals were sampled in June 2005 in six locations in Senegal and the Gambia, at various salinities between 0 and 101. The poorest condition factors were recorded in the most saline sampling site and the best growth in the fish from a marine environment. The pituitary GH mRNA levels were significantly higher in fish adapted to seawater, whereas the PRL1 mRNA levels were highest in fish adapted to fresh- and brackish water. These results show that the PRL1 mRNA levels seem to reflect relatively well the differences in environmental salinity, in contrast to those of GH, which would tend instead to reflect the individual growth in each environment. However, no relation could be found between growth in the hypersaline areas and the expression profile of GH. Although the fish analysed were morphologically identical, the expression of genes coding for GH and PRL1 showed large differences between individuals. This inter-individual variation in gene expression remains poorly understood.|Comparative biochemistry and physiology. Part B, Biochemistry & molecular biology|Tine;de Lorgeril;Panfili;Diop;Bonhomme;Durand|M;J;J;K;F;JD|Laboratoire Génome, Populations, Interactions, Adaptation, UMR CNRS-IFREMER 5171/Université Montpellier II, Station Méditerranéenne de l'Environnement Littoral, 1 quai de la Daurade, Sète 34200, France. tinemb@ird.sn <tinemb@ird.sn>|eng|England|Journal Article
16648303|2006|The Journal of endocrinology|Recent studies have indicated that ghrelin stimulates growth hormone release from the pituitary via the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR). We have previously isolated two GHSR subtypes from the pituitary of the black seabream Acanthopagrus schlegeli. In the present study, we have cloned and characterized ghrelin from the same fish species at both the cDNA and gene levels. The full-length seabream ghrelin cDNA, isolated from sea-bream stomach using a novel approach by exploiting a single conserved region in the coding region, was found to encode a prepropeptide of 107 amino acids, with the predicted mature ghrelin peptide consisting of 20 amino acids (GSSFLSPSQKPQNRGKSSRV). Embedded in this full-length cDNA is a putative fish orthologue of the recently reported mammalian obestatin peptide. The ghrelin gene in black seabream, obtained by genomic PCR, was found to encompass four exons and three introns, possessing the same structural organization as in tilapia and goldfish, but different from that in rainbow trout. In addition, a 2230-bp 5'-flanking region of the seabream ghrelin gene was obtained by genome walking. Sequence analysis revealed that, as in the case of the human ghrelin gene, there is neither a GC box nor a CAAT box present in the isolated 5'-flanking region. However, a number of putative transcription factor-binding sites different from the human counterpart were found in the 5'-flanking region of the seabream ghrelin gene, suggesting that different cis- and trans-acting elements are involved in controlling their gene expression. Functional activity of this 5'-flanking region was examined by cloning it into the pGL3-Basic vector upstream of the luciferase reporter gene and transfected into various cell lines. Positive promoter activity could only be recorded in the colon-derived Caco-2 cells, suggesting that the cloned 5'-flanking region represents the functional promoter of the seabream ghrelin gene, which exhibits tissue-specific promoter activity. Using reverse transcriptase PCR analysis, expression of ghrelin was detected only in the seabream stomach, but not in the other tissues examined, including the brain, gill, intestine, kidney, liver and spleen. This stomach-specific expression of ghrelin in seabream is subject to regulation, as administration of growth hormone or ipamorelin to the fish in vivo was demonstrated to enhance its expression. Reminiscent of the homologous upregulation found in the transcriptional control of the seabream GHSR gene, a similar homologous regulatory mechanism might also exist in controlling the expression of seabream ghrelin. The identification of both GHSR and ghrelin from a single fish species would facilitate our subsequent studies on the elucidation of the physiological functions of the ghrelin/GHSR system in teleost. The possible existence of obestatin in teleost opens up new research avenues on the somatotropic axis in fish.|The Journal of endocrinology|Yeung;Chan;Woo;Cheng|CM;CB;NY;CH|Department of Biochemistry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong, China.|eng|England|Comparative Study;Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
16461924|2006|Journal of molecular endocrinology|Two genomic contigs of putative growth hormone receptors (GHRs) were identified in fugu and zebrafish genomes by in silico analysis, suggesting the presence of two GHR subtypes in a single teleost species. We have tested this hypothesis by cloning the full-length cDNA sequence of a second GHR subtype from the black seabream in which the first GHR subtype had been previously reported by us. In addition, we had also cloned the sequences of both GHR subtypes from two other fish species, namely the Southern catfish and the Nile tilapia. Phylogenetic analysis of known GHR sequences from various vertebrates revealed that fish GHRs cluster into two distinct clades, viz. GHR1 and GHR2. One clade (GHR1), containing 6 to 7 extracellular cysteine residues, is structurally more akin to the non-teleost GHRs. The other clade (GHR2), containing only 4 to 5 extracellular cysteine residues, is unique to teleosts and is structurally more divergent from the non-teleost GHRs. In addition, we had examined the biological activities of both GHR subtypes from seabream using a number of reporter transcription assays in cultured eukaryotic cells and demonstrated that both of them were able to activate the Spi 2.1 and beta-casein promoters upon receptor stimulation in a ligand specific manner. In contrast, only GHR1 but not GHR2 in seabream could trigger the c-fos promoter activity, indicating that the two GHR subtypes possess some differences in their signal transduction mechanisms. Also, the expression of GHR2 is significantly higher than GHR1 in many tissues of the seabream including the gonad, kidney, muscle, pituitary and spleen. In vivo hormone treatment data indicated that cortisol upregulated hepatic GHR1 expression in seabream but not GHR2, whereas testosterone decreased hepatic GHR2 expression but not GHR1. On the other hand, hepatic expression of both GHR1 and GHR2 in seabream was decreased by estradiol treatment.|Journal of molecular endocrinology|Jiao;Huang;Chan;Zhang;Wang;Cheng|B;X;CB;L;D;CH|Department of Biochemistry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, New Territories, Hong Kong, China.|eng|England|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
16019002|2005|General and comparative endocrinology|The regulation of skin darkness in vertebrates is mediated by alpha-melanophore-stimulating-hormone (alphaMSH). For this action, alphaMSH binds to the melanocortin (MC)-1 receptor, a 7-transmembrane receptor located in melanophore cell membranes. The Mozambique tilapia, Oreochromis mossambicus, can change the hue of its body in response to a change in background, a process that may involve alphaMSH and the MC1R. Scale melanophores were isolated from tilapia that were acclimatised for 25 days to a black, control grey or white background and then tested for their sensitivity to des-, mono-, and di-acetylated alphaMSH. On all backgrounds, mono-acetylated alphaMSH was the dominant isoform present in pituitary homogenates. Mono-acetylated alphaMSH also had the highest potency to disperse melanosomes. Black background adapted fish showed the highest dispersing response to alphaMSH, independent of the isoform applied. We elucidated the nucleotide and amino acid sequence of the tilapia MC1R. We show that its expression in skin does not change when tilapia are acclimatised for 25 days to a black, grey or white background, while a clear change in hue is visible. This finding, combined with the absence of differential MC1R gene expression following background acclimation indicates that the increased sensitivity to alphaMSH is most likely a result of changes in the intracellular signalling system in melanophores of black background adapted fish, rather than up-regulation of the MC1R.|General and comparative endocrinology|van der Salm;Metz;Bonga;Flik|AL;JR;SE;G|Department of Animal Physiology, Institute for Neuroscience, Faculty of Science, Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands.|eng|United States|Comparative Study;Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
16005875|2005|General and comparative endocrinology|The ability to adjust skin darkness to the background is a common phenomenon in fish. The hormone alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alphaMSH) enhances skin darkening. In Mozambique tilapia, Oreochromis mossambicus L., alphaMSH acts as a corticotropic hormone during adaptation to water with a low pH, in addition to its role in skin colouration. In the current study, we investigated the responses of this fish to these two environmental challenges when it is exposed to both simultaneously. The skin darkening of tilapia on a black background and the lightening on grey and white backgrounds are compromised in water with a low pH, indicating that the two vastly different processes both rely on alphaMSH-regulatory mechanisms. If the water is acidified after 25 days of undisturbed background adaptation, fish showed a transient pigmentation change but recovered after two days and continued the adaptation of their skin darkness to match the background. Black backgrounds are experienced by tilapia as more stressful than grey or white backgrounds both in neutral and in low pH water. A decrease of water pH from 7.8 to 4.5 applied over a two-day period was not experienced as stressful when combined with background adaptation, based on unchanged plasma pH and plasma alphaMSH, and Na levels. However, when water pH was lowered after 25 days of undisturbed background adaptation, particularly alphaMSH levels increased chronically. In these fish, plasma pH and Na levels had decreased, indicating a reduced capacity to maintain ion-homeostasis, implicating that the fish indeed experience stress. We conclude that simultaneous exposure to these two types of stressor has a lower impact on the physiology of tilapia than subsequent exposure to the stressors.|General and comparative endocrinology|van der Salm;Spanings;Gresnigt;Bonga;Flik|AL;FA;R;SE;G|Department of Animal Physiology, Institute for Neuroscience, Faculty of Science, Radboud University Nijmegen, Toernooiveld 1, 6525 ED Nijmegen, The Netherlands.|eng|United States|Journal Article
15364521|2004|The Science of the total environment|There is considerable interest in fish consumption, contaminant loads in edible fish, and the risk from consuming fish. Both the benefits and the risks from eating fish are publicized. Most of this attention has focused on recreational anglers and self-caught fish, although the vast majority of fish that people eat are purchased from commercial sources: fish markets and supermarkets. We examined the availability of fish in supermarkets and specialty fish markets in New Jersey, including three regions of the state in communities with high and low per capita incomes (upscale vs. downscale neighborhoods). We were particularly interested in examining whether consumers could determine what type of fish they were buying and whether it was farm-raised or wild. Flounder and salmon were the most commonly available fish, followed by bluefish and tilapia. There were few significant differences in the availability of fish as a function of region. Fish were equally available in fish markets and supermarkets, although snappers were more available in fish markets. The most common fish (found in over 60% of stores) were equally available in upscale and downscale neighborhood stores. However, there were some significant differences in less common fish; butterfish, croaker, monkfish, porgy, and whiting were more available in downscale markets, and halibut, sole, and swordfish were more available in upscale markets. Information available to consumers on labels varied markedly: (1) most labels were generic but some indicated species (e.g., Spanish vs. Boston mackerel, Chilean vs. Black sea bass, mako vs. black-tip shark, rainbow vs. steelhead trout); (2) in many cases, labels indicated whether catfish or salmon were farmed or wild, but usually that information was lacking; (3) sometimes, the labels indicated the location where fish were caught (salmon); and (4) sometimes, there was information on both species and type (e.g., farm/wild for salmon). In most cases, labels gave only a fish name and price. Consumers would be able to make more informed choices if the provenance of fish was clearly stated. State agencies might improve information available to consumers by providing distributors and markets with guidelines about the types of information necessary for consumers to make informed decisions about the fish they eat. When asked, counter staff often could not answer where fish originated from. Finally, there should be partnerships between government agencies responsible for public health, risk assessors, and consumers to ascertain the types of information consumers want and to provide the best available information to consumers.|The Science of the total environment|Burger;Stern;Dixon;Jeitner;Shukla;Burke;Gochfeld|J;AH;C;C;S;S;M|Division of Life Sciences, Rutgers University, 604 Allison Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854-8082, USA. burger@biology.rutgers.edu|eng|Netherlands|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't;Research Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S.;Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S.
14723878|2004|General and comparative endocrinology|This paper describes the development and validation of a commercially available radioimmunoassay (RIA) for the detection of fish insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I). The assay was developed using recombinant barramundi IGF-I as antigen and recombinant tuna IGF-I as radiolabelled tracer and standard. Assay sensitivity was 0.15 ng/ml, inter-assay variation was 16% (n = 9) and intra-assay variation was 3% (n = 10). Cross reactivity of less than 0.01% was found with salmon insulin, salmon IGF-II and barramundi IGF-II, less than 0.5% with human IGF-I and less than 1% with human IGF-II. Parallel dose-response inhibition curves were shown for barramundi (Lates calcarifer), coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch), Southern Bluefin tuna (Thunnus maccoyii), tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus), and seabream (Pagrus auratus) IGF-I. The assay was then used to measure stress related changes in different aquacultured fish species. Salt water acclimated Atlantic salmon smolts (Salmo salar) bathed for 2 h in fresh water showed significantly lower IGF-I concentrations than control smolts two days after the bath (53.1 compared to 32.1 ng/ml), with levels of IGF-I also lower in smolts exhibiting stunted growth (stunts). Capture and confinement of wild tuna in sea-cages resulted in a significant decrease in IGF-I levels (28 ng/ml) when compared to tuna captured and sampled immediately (48 ng/ml), but had recovered to starting levels after 3 weeks (43 ng/ml). Handling and isolation in silver perch (Bidyanus bidyanus) led to a gradual decline in IGF-I over a 12 h period (36-19 ng/ml) but showed signs of recovery by 24 h (24 ng/ml) and had recovered fully 72 h after treatment (40 ng/ml). A similar trial in black bream (Acanthopagrus butcherii) showed comparable results with IGF-I levels gradually decreasing (40-26 ng/ml) over 24 h, results that were mirrored by cortisol concentrations which increased during this time (1-26 ng/ml). In the studies presented here changes in IGF-I levels were not observed for at least 3 h after exposure to the stressor. We suggest this is due to the endocrine nature of IGF-I regulation and the clearance rate of IGF-I in vivo.|General and comparative endocrinology|Dyer;Upton;Stone;Thomas;Soole;Higgs;Quinn;Carragher|AR;Z;D;PM;KL;N;K;JF|TGR Biosciences, Hindmarsh, SA 5001, Australia. anthony.dyer@tgr-biosciences.com.au|eng|United States|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
12911062|2003|Diseases of aquatic organisms|Trematode metacercaria populations infecting cichlids in Lake Kinneret (Sea of Galilee) were used as sentinels for the changing limnological environment. Parasitological data from 0+ cichlid fingerlings (Tilapia zillii, Oreochromis aureus, Sarotherodon galilaeus) were collected from the northwest shore of the lake during 1999 to 2001 and compared with data obtained from 1982 to 1984. The results show that the composition of the metacercarial populations changed significantly between the 2 samplings periods. The total number of metacercarial species found in the Kinneret cichlids was lower in 1999 to 2001 than in 1982 to 1984. Metacercariae transmitted by the snail Bulinus truncatus (Clinostomum tilapiae, Euclinostomum heterostomum, Bolbophorus levantinus and Neascus-type metacercariae--black spot and others) that were commonly found in 1982 to 1984 were absent from the fishes sampled during 1999 to 2001. The other trematode metacercariae (Centrocestus sp. and Haplorchis sp. transmitted by Melanoides tuberculata, Pygidiopsis genata transmitted by Melanopsis costata, as well as Phagicola longa, Strigeidae sp.1, an unidentified metacercaria typically found in the liver, and glochidia) increased in abundance in fishes sampled during 1999 to 2001. The calculated 'true' species richness of the habitat, extrapolated as a function of sampling effort, was significantly lower in the 1999 to 2001 versus 1982 to 1984 samples, while significantly fewer fishes needed to be sampled ('sampling effort') during 1999 to 2001 in order to reach the 'true' species richness. The higher calculated values of species richness and diversity for the 1999 to 2001 samples despite the overall decline in species number is explained by the overall increase in metacercariae prevalence.|Diseases of aquatic organisms|Dzikowski;Diamant;Paperna|R;A;I|Department of Animal Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Environmental Quality Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, PO Box 12, Rehovot 76100, Israel. dzikowsk@agri.huji.ac.il|eng|Germany|Journal Article
12679073|2003|Molecular phylogenetics and evolution|Within the tilapiines, a major African cichlid lineage, quite limited genetic informations are available on phylogenetic interrelationships and phylogeographical patterns at both macro- and micro-evolutionary scales. The present study examines the genetic diversity of the black-chinned tilapia complex from coastal areas in West Africa (Senegal to Congo-Brazzaville) based on mtDNA control region sequences. Phylogenetic inferences provide support for the monophyly of both taxa involved. It is suggested that Sarotherodon melanotheron and Sarotherodon nigripinnis have diverged probably since the early Pleistocene. The occurrence of the main intraspecific lineages could be dated back to about 500,000-900,000 years. Our data suggest that West African Pleistocene refuge zones may have strongly influenced the degree and level of genetic differentiation among populations and thus the observed phylogeographic patterns. The spatial distribution of mtDNA lineages and the centres of intrapopulational genetic diversity clearly correspond to proposed lowland refuge zones and core areas of Central Africa. Moreover, this study genetically supports the existence of Sarotherodon melanotheron leonensis for the first time and further confirms the validity of the most recently introduced subspecies, e.g., Sarotherodon nigripinnis dolloi.|Molecular phylogenetics and evolution|Falk;Teugels;Abban;Villwock;Renwrantz|TM;GG;EK;W;L|Zoologisches Institut und Zoologisches Museum der Universität Hamburg, Martin Luther King Pl 3, 20146 Hamburg, Germany. thomas.falk@uni-hamburg.de|eng|United States|Comparative Study;Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
12069766|2002|Veterinary microbiology|Piscirickettsia salmonis was the first "rickettsia-like" bacteria to be recognized as a pathogenic agent of fish. Since the first reports of piscirickettsiosis emerged from Chile in the late 1980s, Piscirickettsia-like bacteria have been recognized with increasing frequency in a variety of fish species, from both fresh and saltwaters around the world. Although the first reported incidents of Piscirickettsia were in salmonids, Piscirickettsia-like bacteria are now being frequently associated with disease syndromes in non-salmonid fish. Mortalities have occurred in white seabass (Atactoscion noblis), black seabass (Dicentrarchus sp.), tilapia (Oreochromis, Tilapia and Sarotherodon spp.) and blue-eyed plecostomus (Panaque suttoni). Piscirickettsiosis and piscirickettsiosis-like diseases have affected aquaculture productivity, profitability, the species of fish compatible with commercial rearing, and transportation of fish from site to site. Piscirickettsiosis and syndromes caused by similar bacteria are an emerging disease complex that will increasingly inhibit fish production.|Veterinary microbiology|Mauel;Miller|MJ;DL|Veterinary Diagnostic and Investigational Laboratory, The University of Georgia, P.O. Box 1389, Tifton, GA 31793, USA. mmauel@tifton.cpes.peachnet.edu|eng|Netherlands|Journal Article;Review
11837457|2002|Pigment cell research|Red tilapia has aroused interest in many countries for its commercial potential. This tilapia strain combines a desirable coloration and appearance with other advantageous farming characteristics. To study the early appearance of melanophore pigmentation in tilapia, a red tilapia strain originating from Thailand and a wild type coloration of Oreochromis niloticus were used as broodstock to produce artificially wild x wild and red x red progenies. The larvae were assessed periodically up to the first feeding and were recorded. Wild type fish showed a regular appearance of stellate melanophores. In the red strain, the pattern of chromatophores varies from total absence of black spotting to different degrees of macromelanophore distribution. Comparison between red and wild types showed that these two tilapia can be easily scored at day 7. Further, we present indications that the pigmentation over the body develops independently of the initial degree of pigmentation.|Pigment cell research|Hilsdorf;Penman;Farias;McAndrew|AW;DJ;EC;B|University of Mogi Das Cruzes/Unit of Environmental Sciences, SP, Brazil. wagner@umc.br|eng|Denmark|Journal Article
11742517|2001|General and comparative endocrinology|In the current study, the authors examined the effects of experimentally induced hypothyroidism on peripheral thyroid hormone metabolism and growth in two closely related tilapia species: the Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) and the slower growing black tilapia (Sarotherodon melanotheron). Hypothyroidism, induced by administration of 0.2% methimazole through the food, significantly decreased plasma T(3) and T(4) in both species. This decrease in circulating thyroid hormones was accompanied by an increase in hepatic type II deiodinase (D2) and a decrease in hepatic type III deiodinase (D3). Hepatic type I deiodinase (D1), which is barely expressed in euthyroid tilapia, was significantly upregulated during hypothyroidism. The changes in hepatic D1 and D2 enzyme activity were paralleled by changes in D1 and D2 mRNA levels, indicating pretranslational regulation. Hypothyroidism also resulted in severe growth retardation that was accompanied by an increase in condition factor. Because hyperthyroidism has been shown to decrease the condition factor, these results suggest that thyroid hormones play an essential role in the control of proportional body growth in fish. The authors conclude that (1) hepatic D1 expression is induced by hypothyroidism in tilapia, (2) the changes in hepatic iodothyronine deiodinases during hypothyroidism in tilapia are predominantly regulated at a pretranslational level, and (3) thyroid hormones are involved in the control of proportional body growth in fish.|General and comparative endocrinology|Van der Geyten;Toguyeni;Baroiller;Fauconneau;Fostier;Sanders;Visser;Kühn;Darras|S;A;JF;B;A;JP;TJ;ER;VM|Laboratory of Comparative Endocrinology, K.U. Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. Serge.VanderGeyten@bio.kuleuven.ac.be|eng|United States|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
11178882|2001|General and comparative endocrinology|The objectives of this study were to investigate the potential roles of cortisol and gonadal steroids in the phagocytic activity of peripheral blood leukocytes in two teleosts, tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus x O. aureus) and common carp (Cyprinus carpio). An in vitro microtiter plate assay, measuring incorporation of FITC-latex beads into peripheral blood leukocytes, was developed for the first time in teleosts. Peripheral blood leukocytes were cultured in AL medium with tested compounds in a microfluor black plate at 25 degrees C. FITC-latex beads were further incubated for phagocytosis and engulfed fluorescent intensity in phagocytes was detected fluorometrically. Cortisol suppressed leukocyte phagocytosis in a dose (10(-14) to 10(-4) M)- and time (0.5 to 8 h)-dependent manner in tilapia. The glucocorticoid agonist dexamethasone had a suppressive effect similar to that of cortisol, while cortisone and the mineralocorticoid aldosterone had only a weak effect in tilapia. High doses of estradiol and ethynylestradiol, but not of estrone, suppressed phagocytosis in tilapia. No suppressive effect on phagocytosis was observed with various concentrations of progesterone, testosterone, and 11-ketotestosterone. Triiodothyronine was also inactive on phagocytosis. A combination of estradiol and cortisol potentiatingly suppressed phagocytosis. Actinomycin D and cycloheximide blocked the suppressive effects of cortisol and estradiol. Cortisol had weaker suppressive effects on the phagocytosis of leukocytes in common carp than tilapia. Other steroids had no suppressive action on phagocytosis in common carp. It is concluded that the suppressive effects of cortisol and estradiol on phagocytosis in tilapia are mediated by specific glucocorticoid receptors and estrogen receptors, respectively. Cortisol would play a main and important role on the down-regulation of phagocytic activity. Sexual steroids, such as estradiol, also could interact with cortisol to further suppress immunity in tilapia. Differential responsiveness of the immune system to suppressive effects of steroids, among teleosts species, has been demonstrated.|General and comparative endocrinology|Law;Chen;Song;Dufour;Chang|WY;WH;YL;S;CF|Department of Aquaculture, National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelung 202, Taiwan, Republic of China.|eng|United States|Comparative Study;Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
10924286|2000|Hormones and behavior|The black-chinned tilapia (Sarotherodon melanotheron) is considered a paternal mouthbrooder in which the male churns the eggs in his mouth for 14-18 days after they are fertilized. We previously showed that plasma androgen and estradiol concentrations increased significantly between the beginning and end of mouthbrooding. Here we provide evidence that androgen and estradiol are relatively high in prespawning male tilapia, decrease significantly with the initiation of mouthbrooding, and return to and slightly surpass prespawning levels by the end of mouthbrooding. We then test the hypothesis that the initiation of mouthbrooding causes a decrease in androgen and estradiol. We raised single pairs of tilapia in seawater aquaria and conducted two experiments. In the first, we removed eggs from males on the morning of Day 1 of mouthbrooding, followed changes in plasma androgen and estradiol in the afternoon of Day 1 and on Days 6, 11, and 16, and compared them to levels in control males who kept their eggs. Removing eggs from mouthbrooding males on the morning of Day 1 eliminated the decrease in plasma androgen and estradiol observed in the afternoon of Day 1 of mouthbrooding. This demonstrates that the eggs are necessary for the decrease. We observed that, infrequently, the female of the pair would pick up the eggs to brood them in her mouth. In a second experiment, in the afternoon of Day 1, we sampled both the male and female of pairs in which the female brooded eggs. In female-brooding pairs, the females had significantly lower androgen and estradiol levels than prespawning females. The black-chinned tilapia in captivity exhibits both paternal and maternal parental behavior. In both sexes the initiation of mouthbrooding triggers a decrease in androgen and estradiol concentrations. We conclude that the presence of eggs inhibits the pituitary-gonadal axis in both males and females and hypothesize that a chemical signal from the eggs is delaying the initiation of the next brood.|Hormones and behavior|Specker;Kishida|JL;M|Graduate School of Oceanography, University of Rhode Island, 218 South Ferry Road, Narragansett, Rhode Island 02882-1197, USA. jspecker@gso.uri.edu|eng|United States|Journal Article;Research Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S.
10712857|2000|Hormones and behavior|The black-chinned tilapia (Sarotherodon melanotheron) is a paternal mouthbrooder. Pairs of adult black-chinned tilapia were raised in freshwater and the males were sampled during the mouthbrooding cycle. Sampling also occurred 10 days after release of the free-swimming fry for comparison. During the first week of incubation of the eggs, total androgens and estradiol were low (<5 and <0.3 ng/ml, respectively). During the second week of brooding, when the eggs have hatched and they are called newly hatched embryos, plasma levels of gonadal steroids increased (13-38 ng androgen/ml and >0.6 ng estradiol/ml). The plasma concentrations of vitellogenin (VTG) in male parents changed during mouthbrooding, with decreases occurring between egg pickup and hatching of the embryo (Day 6 of mouthbrooding). The pattern of change in concentrations of VTG in surface mucus of male parents differed from the pattern in plasma, with peak concentrations occurring at the time of hatching. The amount of VTG in mucus was similar to that measured in the female Oreochromis mossambicus during mouthbrooding of embryos. The appearance of peak VTG levels in the mucus at the time of hatching when plasma levels have declined and the availability of comparable amounts of mucus VTG in both maternal and paternal mouthbrooding tilapia, despite unequivalent plasma levels, support the possibility that parental provisioning of the young occurs during mouthbrooding in tilapia.|Hormones and behavior|Kishida;Specker|M;JL|Graduate School of Oceanography, University of Rhode Island, 218 South Ferry Road, Narragansett, Rhode Island 02882-1197, USA.|eng|United States|Journal Article;Research Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S.
10201813|1999|Journal of neuroendocrinology|Specific and sensitive radioimmunoassays (RIAs) were newly developed for two types of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), namely, seabream (sb) GnRH and chicken (c) GnRH-II. We employed these two RIAs together with a previously reported RIA for salmon (s) GnRH to study the presence and regional distribution of these three GnRHs in the brains and pituitaries of four perciform fishes (red seabream, Pagrus major; black seabream, Acanthopagrus schlegeli; striped knifejaw, Oplegnathus fasciatus; and Nile tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus), as well as clarify seasonal changes in levels of these GnRHs in the brain and pituitary of red seabream. All three GnRHs were found in brains of all fishes examined, with regional distributions in the brains of the three GnRHs being rather similar. sbGnRH was abundant in telencephalon and hypothalamus. cGnRH-II was concentrated from the middle to posterior part of the brain and distributed throughout the brain. sGnRH was concentrated in the olfactory bulb and distributed all over the brain, as was cGnRH-II. The dominant form of GnRH in the pituitary was sbGnRH, with levels 500- to 2400-fold higher than those of sGnRH, while cGnRH-II was undetectable in all four species. In the brain and pituitary of female red seabream, levels of both brain and pituitary sbGnRH increased from October (immature phase) and reached a peak in April (spawning phase), reflecting the increase in gonadosomatic index and vitellogenesis. However, levels of sbGnRH remained high only in the pituitary of completely regressed fish in June. Levels of both sGnRH and cGnRH-II in the brain were higher in the regressed phase and remained lower during the spawning phase. From these and previous results, it appears that sbGnRH is physiologically the most important form of GnRH in reproduction in red seabream and, probably, in other perciforms also.|Journal of neuroendocrinology|Senthilkumaran;Okuzawa;Gen;Ookura;Kagawa|B;K;K;T;H|Inland Station, National Research Institute of Aquaculture, Tamaki, Japan.|eng|United States|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
8559281|1995|Neuroendocrinology|The melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) precursor encodes MCH and a second peptide named neuropeptide EI (NEI) in mammals, neuropeptide EV (NEV) in salmonids and MCH gene-related peptide (Mgrp) in other fish. The primary structure of the putative Mgrp of the cichlid fish tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus) appears to be very different from mammalian NEI and salmonid NEV. To investigate the processing and release of tilapia Mgrp (tMgrp), in the present study an antiserum was raised against synthetic tMgrp. By immunocytochemistry, tMgrp immunoreactivity was colocated with MCH immunoreactivity in the tilapia hypothalamus and pituitary. In addition, a tMgrp enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in combination with reversed phase HPLC was used to demonstrate the presence of processed tMgrp in tilapia hypothalamus and pituitary. The release of tMgrp from neuro-intermediate lobes (NILs) of tilapia pituitaries was demonstrated after in vivo incubation of chopped NILs. Depolarizing concentrations of potassium significantly stimulated tMgrp release. Six weeks of adaptation of tilapia to white or black backgrounds had no effect on in vitro tMgrp release or on the tMgrp content of NIL and hypothalamus. Tilapia Mgrp, unlike MCH, had no effect on tilapia scale melanophores, nor did it modulate the melanin-concentrating effect of MCH. We conclude that tMgrp is processed from the MCH preprohormone, that it is released in vitro, and that the peptide has no direct role in the melanin concentration of fish scale melanophores. Therefore a neuroendocrine or neuromodulatory function is proposed for tMgrp.|Neuroendocrinology|Gröneveld;Balm;Wendelaar Bonga|D;PH;SE|Department of Animal Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.|eng|Switzerland|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
7496393|1995|Journal of neuroendocrinology|For some teleosts, a role has been established for melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) background adaptation and stress response. In teleost fishes, prepro-MCH (ppMCH) mRNA is expressed in the hypothalamus, predominantly in neurons of the nucleus lateralis tuberis (NLT) and in scattered cells of the nucleus recessus lateralis (NRL). The response of mature tilapia to different environmental challenges was studied by assessing ppMCH mRNA levels in these two hypothalamic nuclei by quantitative dot blot analysis. Changes in background colour induced pronounced differences in ppMCH mRNA expression in the NLT, but not in the NRL. The NLT of tilapia adapted to a white background contained 2.5 to 3 times more ppMCH mRNA than the NLT of black-adapted fish. The NLT of fish kept on neutral background contained intermediate levels of ppMCH mRNA, which were significantly lower than the levels in white-adapted fish. Oral administration of dexamethasone lowered plasma cortisol concentrations, but had no effect on ppMCH mRNA levels in white- and black-adapted fish. In tilapia exposed to strongly acidified water (pH 3.5), plasma cortisol and ACThH concentrations were highly elevated, and plasma chloride concentrations considerably lower than in controls. These fish responded with a 70% rise in ppMCH mRNA levels in the NLT, which is most probably associated with a stress response evoked by inadequate osmoregulation. After exposure to a milder acidification (pH 4.0) or to seawater no significant changes in ppMCH mRNA levels occurred in either the NLT or the NRL, nor in plasma chloride, cortisol and ACTH levels. A specific increase of ppMCH mRNA levels in the NRL was observed in repeatedly disturbed tilapia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)|Journal of neuroendocrinology|Gröneveld;Balm;Martens;Wendelaar Bonga|D;PH;GJ;SE|Department of Animal Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.|eng|United States|Comparative Study;Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
7619209|1995|Journal of molecular endocrinology|Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a neuropeptide involved in background adaptation in teleost fish, and in multiple regulatory functions in mammals and fish. To study the expression of the MCH preprohormone (ppMCH) in teleosts, we first cloned a hypothalamic cDNA encoding the complete ppMCH of tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus), and a cRNA probe derived from a 270 bp ppMCH cDNA fragment was used for the expression studies. The level of ppMCH mRNA expression in tilapia hypothalamus, measured by dot blot analysis, was significantly higher in fish adapted to a white background than in black-adapted animals, which is in accordance with the reported MCH plasma and tissue concentrations in fish. Northern blot analysis not only revealed a strong ppMCH mRNA signal in the hypothalamus, but also the presence of ppMCH mRNA in the neurointermediate lobe (NIL) of the pituitary. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry showed that ppMCH mRNA as well as MCH immunoreactivity are located in perikarya of two hypothalamic regions, namely in the nucleus lateralis tuberis (NLT) and the nucleus recessus lateralis (NRL). Quantitative analysis by dot blot hybridization revealed about eight times more ppMCH mRNA in the NLT than in the NRL and NIL of mature tilapias. ppMCH mRNA in the NIL could be localized to cell bodies of the neurohypophysis, which were also MCH immunoreactive.|Journal of molecular endocrinology|Gröneveld;Eckhardt;Coenen;Martens;Balm;Wendelaar Bonga|D;ER;AJ;GJ;PH;SE|Department of Animal Physiology, Faculty of Science, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.|eng|England|Journal Article;Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
31113082|1993|Journal of food protection|A total of 74 strains were isolated from the intestines of seven freshwater fish and 10 water samples, and identified to the species level by the conventional method based on morphological, physiological and biochemical properties, and DNA-DNA hybridization method. Achromopeptidase treatment was found to be useful for the recovery of DNAs from Plesiomonas shigelloides cells because the amount of DNA obtained with this treatment was 3.1-7.2 times greater than with lysozyme. All the strains were identified as P. shigelloides on the basis of the mol% G + C contents of DNAs and homology values against the type strain of this microorganism, along with morphological, physiological, and biochemical properties. The P. shigelloides was detected in 29 out of 51 fish specimens and four out of 10 water samples. Black bass, Japanese eel, ayu, and tilapia harbored high densities of P. shigelloides , ranging from 104-108 CFU/g, with high frequencies of occurrence (73-100%). These results strongly suggested that the microplate hybridization method is an excellent procedure for the ecological study of P. shigelloides .|Journal of food protection|Sugita;Nakamura;Deguchi|H;T;Y|Department of Fisheries, Nihon University, Shimouma, Setagaya, Tokyo 154, Japan.;Department of Fisheries, Nihon University, Shimouma, Setagaya, Tokyo 154, Japan.;Department of Fisheries, Nihon University, Shimouma, Setagaya, Tokyo 154, Japan.|eng|United States|Journal Article
7128553|1982|Endokrinologie|The fish Tilapia mossambica were exposed for 30 days to continuously illuminated black or white backgrounds. When compared with the controls the black-adapted fish showed multiplication of the melanophores with a maximal dispersion of the melanosomes. The white background induced blanching of the fish because of depletion of the melanophores and aggregation of the melanosomes. The treatment evoked major changes in the pars intermedia cells. Of these, the amphiphils were stimulated in the black-adapted and regressed in the white-adapted fish indicating that these cells secrete melanophore stimulating hormone. The cyanophils showed depressed activity in the black-adapted fish, but in the white-adapted animals they were stimulated. These alterations suggest the elaboration of a melanophore concentrating hormone by the cyanophils. Regressive effects were also recorded in the gonadotrops and gonads of the experimental T. mossambica.|Endokrinologie|Latey;Rangneker|AN;PV|eng|Germany|Journal Article
7388932|1980|Cell and tissue research|The pars intermedia of Sarotherodon mossambicus (Tilapia mossambica) contains two cell types which can be differentiated at both the light and electron microscopic level. The predominant cell type is lead haematoxyline positive, and has been shown to be the MSH producing cell type by means of immunocytochemical staining at the ultrastructural level. The changes in cellular and nuclear volume, as well as the results of stereological measurements on the cytoplasmic organelles, show that the activity of MSH cells is high on a black background and low on a white background or in total darkness. In blinded fish under a normal day-night regime the activity of the MSH cell is as high as that in black adapted fish, whereas the activity is low when the blinded fish are kept in total darkness. From the observed differences in activity of the MSH cells between the experimental groups, it is concluded that the MSH cells are not activated by the absence of reflected light, but by a high ratio between direct and reflected light. A second light-sensitive organ, supposedly the pineal gland, is also involved in the background response of the MSH producing cells.|Cell and tissue research|van Eys|GJ|eng|Germany|Journal Article
